[Music]
I'm gonna apologize beforehand because I
am quite sick and I was coughing my
lungs out backstage so if I break into a
coughing fit sorry you can laugh at me
it's fine
hopefully this never happens to you but
have some water and that will hopefully
be good alright right now the Internet
is in the middle of a revolution like
most technology revolutions it's deeply
changing how things work and it's hard
to perceive in full what's happening
even when you're living in the middle of
it I'm going to share some stories from
the front of this revolution I'm going
to be speaking mostly from my experience
with blog chains and ipfs the
interplanetary file system but before
diving in let me frame the story the
Internet is humanity's most important
technology it's our shared nervous
system our shared brain and everything
that we humans do is starting to be put
online well most of our lives here in
Silicon Valley are mostly over the
Internet now we work together we play
together we learn together and so on and
this is extending throughout the world
reaching even very remote places in the
world new applications give us new
superpowers they're like software
granted magic right but these
superpowers are defined by the
properties of the internet and the
properties of those applications how
fast they work how accessible they are
how secure they are and so on all of
these things determine and limit these
superpowers and they also determine how
they fail when they fail do you feel
secure knowing that all of your digital
life is running on all these
applications on the web do you know how
it functions in a catastrophic failure
if part of the internet falls apart so
what's going now with this new
revolution is that this is starting to
get addressed what we're moving to is a
system with public verifiability with
other kinds of properties that are being
baked in from things like block chains
and so on on down down the layers of the
stack and the best way to sum up this
revolution is decentralization
decentralization moving from something
that's centralized to something that's
not the services applications and data
itself computation and so on all of this
stuff is being removed from want some
central entities and spread out through
the network and it's the right time to
get involved in fact a lot of this
thinking is not coming from Silicon
Valley it's coming from the rest of the
world and I think it's it's important
that people here start getting involved
in these technologies because if you
don't the future may not be what you
hoped for
so why decentralisation right like what
what is the point centralization is
effective in a centralized Network
there's a central point of coordination
it's simple easy to manage and improve
but it's not very resilient there is of
course a central point of failure and
there's also a central point of control
that node in the center controls what
the rest of the edges of the network can
do so it's in a way owned by that
central node the the alternative is to
go towards distributed networks or
decentralized networks and these all of
the nodes share the coordination
responsibilities this is much more
difficult to make but it yields a much
more resilient system as we can cut
large numbers of late links bring down a
bunch of nodes and the parts of the
network even though separate can still
function the failure semantics are
significantly better and nobody controls
it
so bitcoin is a perfect example of a
decentralized service it's not fully
distributed but it is decentralized it's
a global payment system a secure
transaction processor and immutable
public record time stamping service as
we heard and the coordination work is
being done by a bunch of computers put
together all the miners no entity holds
power over the rest of the network
and it's publicly verifiable you don't
have to
trust that some entity is going to keep
its word the bitcoins economic model
incentivizes a huge number of people to
work hard daily to keep the network
running to add more hashing power to fix
problems these miners keep it going
but the worth of Bitcoin itself also
incentivizes people to improve the
network to tell others about it to
broaden broaden the reach they are
working for the network they're sort of
a workforce a distributed workforce
members of the network do what they
think is most valuable for themselves
and the network Bitcoin aligns
incentives because if the Bitcoin price
goes up everyone benefits so they're
working together if you think of Bitcoin
as a company it has thousands of
employees serves millions of people
moves billions of dollars it's worth 10
billion in the currency alone and who
knows how much more as a platform since
Bitcoin introduced the blockchain
there's been a series of important
developments new cryptocurrency networks
and decentralized services are being
created left and right to tackle various
different kinds of challenges I'll give
you a pretty quick survey of the space
you already got one but this this will
get you help you get a feel for the
kinds of things that are coming that are
being built now and are being district
released so of course there's the
theorem the second largest
cryptocurrencies network it's like a
global computer that runs decentralized
programs and these programs are called
smart contracts they are the closest
thing we have to some sort of
programmable law and like Bitcoin is a
decentralized blockchain but it also
features technologies that go beyond
bitcoins reach and can do many other
kinds of things if the room has a whole
host of applications writing on top of
it and they're just beginning to launch
so this will get pretty interesting all
growing noses are built on top of
aetherium and their prediction markets
where people can trade futures on the
outcome of events open Bazaar is a
decentralized free market on the
internet it uses Bitcoin and ipfs people
can buy and sell goods and services to
each other users connect directly to
each other without intermediaries
there's no one setting policy
it's just peer-to-peer steam and Akasha
are decentralized social networks built
with block chains on ipfs they have -
steam has tens of thousands of users
already and people are using these
things
z cash not yet live is another
decentralized cryptocurrency that offers
private and selectively transparent
transactions it's like Bitcoin but
completely private digital cash
worldwide private money is a new thing
it may be one of the most important
financial innovations of this decade
maybe more falcone also not yet live and
I work on this is a cryptocurrency
incentivized storage network it uses
incentive structure similar to bitcoins
and organized as a set of miners who
work for the network adding enormous
amounts of disk storage think of them as
Amazon s3 meets Bitcoin the cloud
cryptocurrencies and devised these are
just a few examples of the kinds of
things people are building today there
are many others you can look around and
this sample is the first wave there will
be many more iterations on this and
they'll build on each other so it's very
hard to predict what kinds of things
will get built over the next couple of
years it's happening quite fast and so
when you you have to kind of step back a
little bit and think what's what's going
on and so when you squint a bit and when
you think about web 1.0 it was about
linking content together and bringing it
online on top of the internet and web
2.0 was about linking programs to that
content and allowing you to have dynamic
applications on top of this nice
platform what's going on now is that
we're using public verifiability we're
using we're linking content to and
programs to each other directly without
intermediaries you won't have to trust
those entities and this is writing on a
bunch of advances in cryptography
distributed systems game theory
economics networking and so on it's
going to take what bitcoin did to money
and apply it to all kinds of services
all kinds of applications and so the
centralization adds a significant safety
margin and resilience to these kinds of
networks they become more efficient in
some ways it changes the power dynamics
and it wrenches on entrenched central
controllers out the other thing is that
decentralization and you know fully
distributed networks are the future in
it's undeniable because it's sort of
mandated by the
laws of physics as our internet reaches
areas that are distant where latency is
get high or when you start thinking
about going to other planets then you
can't rely on a central agent that's
processing transactions you'd have to
wait like every round-trip would be many
minutes and it would vary depending on
where the planets are so the internet
will get completely decentralized and
distributed and it will help people on
earth as well to move in this direction
because to a data center that's
operating at microsecond speed somebody
out in the edge of the network operating
in seconds feels like a distant planet
so we built the interplanetary file
system to solve these kinds of serious
problems we were deeply frustrated by a
set of things that we saw we're not
getting better and I'll describe a few
of them so you get a feel for what
motivates us the web does not work
offline right or in networks that are
disconnected suppose we're all working
together in a shared document here right
now with our computers and the Wi-Fi
network connecting us was just fine but
there was some problem outside of this
room that prevented us from reaching
whatever server was running in a sink
the thing would break down we wouldn't
be able to work together even though our
computers today are each a supercomputer
of you know a few decades ago and we're
all connected just fine the thing would
cease to work and this I think these
days is unacceptable and this gets
particularly bad when you think about
people in very poor networks people
whose access is intermittent or very
constrained and when you think about it
that's most of the developing world this
is quite outrageous actually because the
internet is supposed to be a force for
equality it's all it's supposed to
equalize access to information and
knowledge and it's the people that need
it most
their take get the least benefit from it
they are being blocked by these central
entities that are forcing all of these
connections to go to them so there's
other problems right there's problems of
security and there's problems of
resilience and so
think about how easy it would be to
oppress a whole people when you can just
cut a pipe right when you can just
censor the entire thing and all attacker
has to do is just find that one pipe and
cut it off and sometimes that attacker
knows exactly where those pipes are
sometimes it's your government so this
happened to Egypt in 2011 the government
shut down the internet connection to the
rest of the world local networks worked
fine but most applications required this
access of central servers and just shut
down in the middle of an uprising in
such a crisis overnight people went from
being connected to each other to
suddenly not being connected to each
other people couldn't know if their
loved ones were safe they couldn't reach
each other this was like interfering
with our nervous system like interfering
with our shared brain and this attack
exploited the brittleness of
centralization and that affects us all
cryptographer bruce schneier recently
wrote that someone is learning how to
take down the internet they're testing
the security of the companies that run
critical pieces of the internet they're
precisely calibrating attacks to
determine exactly how well these
companies can defend themselves and what
it would require to take them down I
don't know about you but that sounds
terrifying we're not ready almost none
of the applications we use would work in
a partitioned Internet and it doesn't
take powerful state actors much weaker
ones could do it or perhaps even natural
disasters they could off they could cut
off access to millions of people and all
of the logistics that coordinated the
supply chain would fall apart this would
render the software superpowers that
we've been working for the last few
decades to build completely useless and
potentially overnight there are other
problems as well but the last one I'll
mention is that there's also a crisis of
erased history every day web servers
change structure shut down altogether
bringing down the content located there
researchers estimate that the average
life span of a web page is under 75 days
if you have a link to a web page it may
be inaccessible just three months later
worse vital data is going missing all
the time people file scientific papers
research data critical records it's a
mess
is the case even when people wish to
back things up the way things are the
act of backing something up or mirroring
it means copying it elsewhere it gets a
different address copies of information
on the web are not fungible and this is
quite weird to humans because in the
physical world multiple copies of a book
are supposed to be the same they're
equivalent that's not the case in the
web and so I as I dug deeper into these
problems I got very frustrated and sad
and I realized that they're all caused
by centralization in one small thing and
they're it's in the web and specifically
it's the addressing the core of the
internet was designed to be fully
distributed it has no central point of
failure and no central authority tcp/ip
that the protocols underlying it are all
inherently peer-to-peer any internet
node can talk to each other but the web
though it was designed with these kinds
of principles in mind and has a lot of
decentralization baked in a problem
snuck in and it was meant to make things
fast and efficient and it made sense at
the time but the issue is that most
links that you used to bind content
together and perhaps probably every link
you've seen is a URL a URL has a flaw
it's based on location addressing the
domain name resolves to an IP address
the address of a specific server on one
specific physical machine machine so
when you load the link you are forced to
fetch the file from that one server it
doesn't matter if you have it locally it
doesn't matter if you can find it in
other computers right next to you you
have to fetch it from that one server to
frame it in the context of humans think
about it like a book I imagine that you
could only reference books by the
physical location of one particular copy
not by title or author or ISBN but by
the physical location so if someone told
you to read a book they'd say something
like hey you should go read this amazing
book that I just read it's in the New
York Public Library section 9 bookcase 3
top shelf first from the left and you'd
be like all right I will go there and
you travel all the way to New York you
get to the New York Public Library
section 9 bookcase 3 top of the shelf
and you find that someone moved it and
you don't find a book there great like
that that's kind of ridiculous or what
if the library shut down that day or
maybe closed
down permanently or what if this just
insanely inefficient and you don't want
to make that trip or when you get there
you find out that it's the exact same
book you've been carrying in your
backpack all day so this is ridiculous
right like this is not how information
is supposed to work and the thing is
that we lost something when we moved
from physical information that's printed
to digital information we lost some
properties when you get a piece of paper
you can hold it you can you can store
the information somewhere you can back
it up you can pull it back out later and
it you have control over it that's not
the case in the web when you have a link
that's not yours it's somebody else's
and they might move it they might change
it they might shut it down and so every
independent copy of something on the web
is its own entity it's not copies of the
same thing you can't treat them the same
so we lost something there and we need
to get it back I hope by now you feel
the same kind of frustration that we
felt and you think about that this is
silly that things shouldn't work that
way that we know better right so there's
good news the solution is actually quite
simple we've known about it for decades
actually it's not easy to deploy and
it's not easy to convince everyone to do
this but it is in principle quite simple
it's called content addressing and it's
the heart of ipfs content addressing
derives a unique identifier for a piece
of data it's like a fingerprint and
these fingerprints are secure they're
cryptographic hashes that's the same
thing that secures Bitcoin and
blockchain it's actually what makes a
blockchain
a chain so we put these fingerprints in
the address of the file instead of the
physical location of the server this way
when we're trying to load a file we
retreated from any place we can if it's
in your own computer awesome you don't
have to go anywhere if it's on the
computers next to you that's great if
it's you can search the network with
efficient routing algorithms and find
the content you need and get it and you
can even tune it for privacy where
you're only requesting things from nodes
that you trust this is similar to what
other peer-to-peer systems do but on
steroids and build directly into the web
so ipfs descent
Lysa's the web itself it addresses
information by what it is not where it
is it separates what from where so the
data can flow through the network so
that it can be stored and served from
anywhere and so that web applications
can work in local networks or
disconnected networks and so whether
it's a chat room in an office that lost
its uplink or a scientific paper hosted
in a variety of libraries or Wikipedia
in a remote village with students trying
to learn or a family's messenger during
a crisis ipfs strengthens our digital
information making it resilient to
failures in the underlying internet
securing it cryptographically and giving
it permanence through time you
archivists and others that care about
something can copy it and store it and
serve it back later let's stop losing
vital information by accident or by
neglect
that's the worst reason to lose
something like a critical data sight or
a critical paper and this has happened
many times so where are we the network
is live it's addressing and moving
billions of objects the project has
tremendous momentum there's a huge open
source project behind the whole thing
and hundreds of people work on it
thousands of developers are building
things on top of it and businesses
already rely on the on it as a key
architectural component so far it's been
primarily used by communities that care
about security public verifiability
repositories of documents data code and
so on distributed applications
blockchain applications are a
particularly important use case because
they can't quite rely on HTTP so it's a
perfect match and finally it's actually
been deployed in banks so that's pretty
cool but now it's time to go towards
more consumer facing things and we're
ready for it it's still early days we're
figuring how these things in the inner
consumer area will work once they become
completely distributed but we built a
chat app that that recently that we
called Orbitz and it works just like any
other popular chat app but it has no
central servers it works entirely on
decentralized principles in the peer to
peer model that we want messages are
cryptographically signed so you know who
wrote them and it will be completely
end-to-end encrypted it's not yet so
don't use it like that but
we'll be when you're chatting next to
someone it feels right messages feel
instantaneous and sending even a large
file to each other feels exactly as it
should it's going from my computer to
the next it's not going from my computer
up the wires through some who knows
where server in the cloud and then all
the way back down so the interesting
thing about orbit is that the underlying
libraries that we use to build it can be
applied to any other kind of thing to
other kinds of social networks like
Twitter or Facebook and so on so all
these things are coming it'll take a
while for them to start to get hold but
the pieces are there and people are
experimenting with them and building
pretty interesting things so the IFS
project is about fixing these kinds of
fundamental problems and following
through across layers and layers of
software it takes time to make your way
through it takes time to get the same
level of performance that people have
gotten through the web for decades and
decades but to succeed we're going to
need a lot of people to think about the
web in this ways to think about the
internet and in this distributed way
this is why it is a call to a revolution
to rethink how we store information to
think about distributing it to think
about public verifiability
and we succeed when the web just gets
better for people where people don't
have to think about using something else
but developers will have to be involved
if you're wondering about the name why
interplanetary filesystem there's three
reasons one it's Anna maj - JCR
Licklider who pioneered and kicked off
the internet he called it the
intergalactic network so the
interplanetary filesystem it's the next
step in that direction to realizing his
vision of someday connecting the Stars -
because designing protocols that work
across vast distances like planets makes
it possible for people around the earth
that are in distant areas far away from
the data center to connect as easily and
nicely as people in the nice fast cities
like this one this is what we call the
interplanetary principle design things
for planets planetary scale and you'll
do very well on earth and three we mean
it when we can and will use ipfs
applications on Mars
we're actually committed to making all
of these things work nicely and we have
a list of applications that need to be
and ready and working just fine well
before SpaceX guests any person there so
the so when the pioneers make it they'll
be able to use the internet just as
nicely as we do here the one cool fact
is that if they used orbit over there
they it would work just fine and they
would be able to chat like any other
application today so the next internet
revolution is decentralizing services
it's a centralizing computation and it's
decentralizing data how we reference
things it is making our networks more
resilient it is making them more capable
and powerful and it's protecting them
it's making sure that they fail
correctly and they don't fail in a
catastrophic manner where everything
would just shut down it involves block
chains decentralized apps
cryptocurrencies and device networks and
ipfs the interplanetary file system
location addressing central Isis and
makes the web brittle insecure and
unusable in many circumstances to
overcome this IP FS is upgrading the web
to use content addressing with
cryptographic hashes as the main
primitive this will improve how we use
digital information and we'll make it a
bit more like printed information so
that working at least get that back and
I'll leave you with this the Revolution
calls it's not very loud and you won't
hear about it often because in these
days revolutions happen on the wires and
they happen very quickly these efforts
and these kinds of networks affect you
deeply and you have to ask yourself do
you want a world that is centrally
controlled do you want a web that works
like that or do you want to
decentralized free one because after all
it's completely up to you thank you
[Applause]
[Music]